https://bmcbioinformatics.biomedcentral.com/submission-guidelines/preparing-your-manuscript/software-article

Software article
Criteria
Software articles should describe a tool likely to be of broad utility
that represents a significant advance over previously published
software (usually demonstrated by direct comparison with available
related software).

Availability of software to reviewers and other researchers
The software application/tool described in the manuscript must be
available for testing by reviewers in a way that preserves their
anonymity. If published, software applications/tools must be freely
available to any researcher wishing to use them for non-commercial
purposes, without restrictions such as the need for a material
transfer agreement. Because weblinks frequently become broken, BMC
Bioinformatics strongly recommends that all software
applications/tools are included with the submitted manuscript as
additional files to ensure that the software will continue to be
available.

BMC Bioinformatics recommends, but does not require, that the source
code of the software should be made available under a suitable
open-source license that will entitle other researchers to further
develop and extend the software if they wish to do so. Typically, an
archive of the source code of the current version of the software
should be included with the submitted manuscript as a supplementary
file. Since it is likely that the software will continue to be
developed following publication, the manuscript should also include a
link to the home page for the software project. For open source
projects, we recommend that authors host their project with a
recognized open-source repository such as bioinformatics.org or
sourceforge.net

Should a description of a website be submitted as a software article
or a database article?
Descriptions of websites and web-based tools should be submitted as
software articles if the intention is that the software that drives
the website will be made available to other researchers to extend and
use on other websites. On the other hand, if a website's functionality
is closely tied to a specific database then the article should instead
be submitted as a database article.

Preparing your manuscript
The information below details the section headings that you should
include in your manuscript and what information should be within each
section.

Please note that your manuscript must include a 'Declarations' section
including all of the subheadings (please see below for more
information).

Title page
The title page should:

present a title that includes, if appropriate, the study design e.g.:
 "A versus B in the treatment of C: a randomized controlled trial", "X
 is a risk factor for Y: a case control study", "What is the impact of
 factor X on subject Y: A systematic review"
or for non-clinical or non-research studies: a description of what the
 article reports
list the full names and institutional addresses for all authors​​​​​​​
if a collaboration group should be listed as an author, please list
 the Group name as an author. If you would like the names of the
 individual members of the Group to be searchable through their
 individual PubMed records, please include this information in the
 “Acknowledgements” section in accordance with the instructions below
indicate the corresponding author
Abstract
The Abstract should not exceed 350 words. Please minimize the use of
 abbreviations and do not cite references in the abstract. The
 abstract must include the following separate sections:

Background: the context and purpose of the study
Results: the main findings
Conclusions: a brief summary and potential implications
Keywords
Three to ten keywords representing the main content of the article.

Background
The Background section should explain the relevant context and the
specific issue that the software described is intended to address.

Implementation
This should include a description of the overall architecture of the
software implementation, along with details of any critical issues and
how they were addressed.

Results
This should include the findings of the study including, if
appropriate, results of statistical analysis which must be included
either in the text or as tables and figures. This section may be
combined with the Discussion section for Software articles.

Discussion (if appropriate)
The user interface should be described and a discussion of the
intended uses of the software, and the benefits that are envisioned,
should be included, together with data on how its performance and
functionality compare with, and improve, on functionally similar
existing software. A case study of the use of the software may be
presented. The planned future development of new features, if any,
should be mentioned.

Conclusions
This should state clearly the main conclusions and provide an
explanation of the importance and relevance of the case, data,
opinion, database or software reported.

Availability and requirements
Lists the following:

     Project name: e.g. My bioinformatics project
     Project home page: e.g. http://sourceforge.net/projects/mged
     Operating system(s): e.g. Platform independent
     Programming language: e.g. Java
     Other requirements: e.g. Java 1.3.1 or higher, Tomcat 4.0 or
     higher
     License: e.g. GNU GPL, FreeBSD etc.
     Any restrictions to use by non-academics: e.g. licence needed

List of abbreviations
If abbreviations are used in the text they should be defined in the
text at first use, and a list of abbreviations should be provided.

Declarations
All manuscripts must contain the following sections under the heading
'Declarations':

Ethics approval and consent to participate
Consent for publication
Availability of data and material
Competing interests
Funding
Authors' contributions
Acknowledgements
Authors' information (optional)
Please see below for details on the information to be included in
these sections.

If any of the sections are not relevant to your manuscript, please
include the heading and write 'Not applicable' for that section. 

Ethics approval and consent to participate
Manuscripts reporting studies involving human participants, human data
or human tissue must:

include a statement on ethics approval and consent (even where the
need for approval was waived)
include the name of the ethics committee that approved the study and
the committee’s reference number if appropriate
Studies involving animals must include a statement on ethics approval.

See our editorial policies for more information.

If your manuscript does not report on or involve the use of any animal
or human data or tissue, please state “Not applicable” in this
section.

Consent for publication
If your manuscript contains any individual person’s data in any form
(including any individual details, images or videos), consent for
publication must be obtained from that person, or in the case of
children, their parent or legal guardian. All presentations of case
reports must have consent for publication.

You can use your institutional consent form or our consent form if you
prefer. You should not send the form to us on submission, but we may
request to see a copy at any stage (including after publication).

See our editorial policies for more information on consent for
publication.

If your manuscript does not contain data from any individual person,
please state “Not applicable” in this section.

Availability of data and materials
All manuscripts must include an ‘Availability of data and materials’
statement. Data availability statements should include information on
where data supporting the results reported in the article can be found
including, where applicable, hyperlinks to publicly archived datasets
analysed or generated during the study. By data we mean the minimal
dataset that would be necessary to interpret, replicate and build upon
the findings reported in the article. We recognise it is not always
possible to share research data publicly, for instance when individual
privacy could be compromised, and in such instances data availability
should still be stated in the manuscript along with any conditions for
access.

Data availability statements can take one of the following forms (or a
combination of more than one if required for multiple datasets):

The datasets generated and/or analysed during the current study are
available in the [NAME] repository, [PERSISTENT WEB LINK TO DATASETS]
The datasets used and/or analysed during the current study are
available from the corresponding author on reasonable request.
All data generated or analysed during this study are included in this
published article [and its supplementary information files].
The datasets generated and/or analysed during the current study are
not publicly available due [REASON WHY DATA ARE NOT PUBLIC] but are
available from the corresponding author on reasonable request.
Data sharing is not applicable to this article as no datasets were
generated or analysed during the current study.
The data that support the findings of this study are available from
[third party name] but restrictions apply to the availability of these
data, which were used under license for the current study, and so are
not publicly available. Data are however available from the authors
upon reasonable request and with permission of [third party name].
Not applicable. If your manuscript does not contain any data, please
state 'Not applicable' in this section.
More examples of template data availability statements, which include
examples of openly available and restricted access datasets, are
available here.

BioMed Central also requires that authors cite any publicly available
data on which the conclusions of the paper rely in the
manuscript. Data citations should include a persistent identifier
(such as a DOI) and should ideally be included in the reference
list. Citations of datasets, when they appear in the reference list,
should include the minimum information recommended by DataCite and
follow journal style. Dataset identifiers including DOIs should be
expressed as full URLs. For example:


Hao Z, AghaKouchak A, Nakhjiri N, Farahmand A. Global integrated
drought monitoring and prediction system (GIDMaPS) data
sets. figshare. 2014. http://dx.doi.org/10.6084/m9.figshare.853801

With the corresponding text in the Availability of data and materials
statement:

The datasets generated during and/or analysed during the current study
are available in the [NAME] repository, [PERSISTENT WEB LINK TO
DATASETS].[Reference number] 

Competing interests
All financial and non-financial competing interests must be declared
in this section.

See our editorial policies for a full explanation of competing
interests. If you are unsure whether you or any of your co-authors
have a competing interest please contact the editorial office.

Please use the authors initials to refer to each authors' competing
interests in this section.

If you do not have any competing interests, please state "The authors
declare that they have no competing interests" in this section.

Funding
All sources of funding for the research reported should be
declared. The role of the funding body in the design of the study and
collection, analysis, and interpretation of data and in writing the
manuscript should be declared.

Authors' contributions
The individual contributions of authors to the manuscript should be
specified in this section. Guidance and criteria for authorship can be
found in our editorial policies.

Please use initials to refer to each author's contribution in this
section, for example: "FC analyzed and interpreted the patient data
regarding the hematological disease and the transplant. RH performed
the histological examination of the kidney, and was a major
contributor in writing the manuscript. All authors read and approved
the final manuscript."

Acknowledgements
Please acknowledge anyone who contributed towards the article who does
not meet the criteria for authorship including anyone who provided
professional writing services or materials.

Authors should obtain permission to acknowledge from all those
mentioned in the Acknowledgements section.

See our editorial policies for a full explanation of acknowledgements
and authorship criteria.

If you do not have anyone to acknowledge, please write "Not
applicable" in this section.

Group authorship (for manuscripts involving a collaboration group): if
you would like the names of the individual members of a collaboration
Group to be searchable through their individual PubMed records, please
ensure that the title of the collaboration Group is included on the
title page and in the submission system and also include collaborating
author names as the last paragraph of the “Acknowledgements”
section. Please add authors in the format First Name, Middle
initial(s) (optional), Last Name. You can add institution or country
information for each author if you wish, but this should be consistent
across all authors.

Please note that individual names may not be present in the PubMed
record at the time a published article is initially included in PubMed
as it takes PubMed additional time to code this information.

Authors' information
This section is optional.

You may choose to use this section to include any relevant information
about the author(s) that may aid the reader's interpretation of the
article, and understand the standpoint of the author(s). This may
include details about the authors' qualifications, current positions
they hold at institutions or societies, or any other relevant
background information. Please refer to authors using their
initials. Note this section should not be used to describe any
competing interests.


Endnotes
Endnotes should be designated within the text using a superscript
lowercase letter and all notes (along with their corresponding letter)
should be included in the Endnotes section. Please format this section
in a paragraph rather than a list.

References
Examples of the Vancouver reference style are shown below.

See our editorial policies for author guidance on good citation
practice

Web links and URLs: All web links and URLs, including links to the
authors' own websites, should be given a reference number and included
in the reference list rather than within the text of the
manuscript. They should be provided in full, including both the title
of the site and the URL, as well as the date the site was accessed, in
the following format: The Mouse Tumor Biology
Database. http://tumor.informatics.jax.org/mtbwi/index.do. Accessed 20
May 2013. If an author or group of authors can clearly be associated
with a web link, such as for weblogs, then they should be included in
the reference.

Example reference style:

Article within a journal

Smith JJ. The world of science. Am J Sci. 1999;36:234-5.

Article within a journal (no page numbers)

Rohrmann S, Overvad K, Bueno-de-Mesquita HB, Jakobsen MU, Egeberg R,
Tjønneland A, et al. Meat consumption and mortality - results from the
European Prospective Investigation into Cancer and Nutrition. BMC
Medicine. 2013;11:63.

Article within a journal by DOI

Slifka MK, Whitton JL. Clinical implications of dysregulated cytokine
production. Dig J Mol Med. 2000; doi:10.1007/s801090000086.

Article within a journal supplement

Frumin AM, Nussbaum J, Esposito M. Functional asplenia: demonstration
of splenic activity by bone marrow scan. Blood 1979;59 Suppl 1:26-32.

Book chapter, or an article within a book

Wyllie AH, Kerr JFR, Currie AR. Cell death: the significance of
apoptosis. In: Bourne GH, Danielli JF, Jeon KW, editors. International
review of cytology. London: Academic; 1980. p. 251-306.

OnlineFirst chapter in a series (without a volume designation but with
a DOI)

Saito Y, Hyuga H. Rate equation approaches to amplification of
enantiomeric excess and chiral symmetry breaking. Top Curr
Chem. 2007. doi:10.1007/128_2006_108.

Complete book, authored

Blenkinsopp A, Paxton P. Symptoms in the pharmacy: a guide to the
management of common illness. 3rd ed. Oxford: Blackwell Science; 1998.

Online document

Doe J. Title of subordinate document. In: The dictionary of substances
and their effects. Royal Society of
Chemistry. 1999. http://www.rsc.org/dose/title of subordinate
document. Accessed 15 Jan 1999.

Online database

Healthwise Knowledgebase. US Pharmacopeia,
Rockville. 1998. http://www.healthwise.org. Accessed 21 Sept 1998.

Supplementary material/private homepage

Doe J. Title of supplementary
material. 2000. http://www.privatehomepage.com. Accessed 22 Feb 2000.

University site

Doe, J: Title of preprint. http://www.uni-heidelberg.de/mydata.html
(1999). Accessed 25 Dec 1999.

FTP site

Doe, J: Trivial HTTP, RFC2169. ftp://ftp.isi.edu/in-notes/rfc2169.txt
(1999). Accessed 12 Nov 1999.

Organization site

ISSN International Centre: The ISSN register. http://www.issn.org
(2006). Accessed 20 Feb 2007.

Dataset with persistent identifier

Zheng L-Y, Guo X-S, He B, Sun L-J, Peng Y, Dong S-S, et al. Genome
data from sweet and grain sorghum (Sorghum bicolor). GigaScience
Database. 2011. http://dx.doi.org/10.5524/100012.

Figures, tables and additional files
See General formatting guidelines for information on how to format
figures, tables and additional files.

Submit manuscript
